 # Project overview

 Personal Asisstant is a project aiming at creating personal content manager and filtering system based on AI.

 In order to make that happen, an extensive framwork for rapid development is needed. Since it's difficult to estimate futureAI progress and available tools, project is modular and its scope may dynamiclaly change over time.

 For that reason, projects needs to be portable, support any OS and use common and widely accessible libraries.

 Multiple AI agents may operate autonomously, as a part of a larger agent ensemble, or just as command line tools. Each of these agents can serve as a tool for another single or multiple agents, which allows modular composition of a system.

# Project goals

## Gather data streams from different services

Examples include:

- RSS feeds
- Email
- Social media
- Youtube
- User files (documents)

## Build knowledge base over time

gather and build structured knowledge to better understand user's preferences and goals, and adjust future recommendations over time.

## Offer basic tools

In order to enable agentic workflow, we need to provide basic tools for reading, writing and processing data.

This includes:

- Reading and writing files
- Reading web pages
- Basic handling of images and other multimedia
- Store artifacts generated by agents
- Edit common data formats, such as JSON, CSV, XML, etc.

## Flexibility

Every AI agent may support any of current or future large language models. These models shoudl eventually be possible to choose and configure at launch.

- Fallback to secondary model if primary model is not available.
- Ideally, allow to switch model at runtime, without losing current context.

## Dockerization

- Must be simple to build and deploy all agents at once.
- Provide easy “one-step” config for container-based projects.
- To make things simpler, each agent should be based on same Docker image containing all the dependencies.

- TODO: Create a second base "debug" image with utils such as bash, curl etc.

- TODO: Store logs on a persistent volume to allow later debugging, and in a long run - data analysis.

### TODO: Build and deploy all the agents at once.

# TODO: Project structure

# TODO: Used libraries

## Patterns and preferences

### Knowledge hiding

Each individual agent should cotain all the knowledge it needs to perform its tasks. Other agents shoudl not rely on other agents' knowledge, or any internal state (minimal coupling)

- If another agent is not accessible or not operating correctly, current agent should be able to continue working and gracefuly handle problems.

### Async and multithreading

- When calling async tasks, return s a tuple of (key, value) from each task so that each result can be assigned to related input.

### Security

Security or privacy is not a priority. For now using personal keys for accessing API and services is sufficient. This is personal project, and in the future it will be open and opt-in for users who are willing to trust their data to AI agents.